Andrew Schneider shares his trajectory as an artist by discussing his process and previous performance work ranging from interactive wearables to online performance, his award-winning YOUARENOWHERE, as well as his focus on human to human interaction. Schneider relates scientific concepts such as quantum mechanics, entropy, cosmology, as well as fundamental questions on consciousness and existence as blueprints for his staging and making, and he will discuss how the technology and design involved in his works are importantly influenced by science.

“All happenings are in the mind. What happens in the minds of all, truly happens.”
-George Orwell

press Enter ↵
About the Artists:

Andrew Schneider is mostly interested in how humans telling stories about ourselves to each other can make us better at being humans. And how much the second law of thermodynamics and grief have in common.

He is an OBIE award-winning, Drama Desk nominated performer, writer, and interactive-electronics artist creating original works for theater, dance, sound, video, and installation since 2003.

“We live in an increasingly synthetic world of our own making. In the name of more and faster connection, we are animals that have separated ourselves from the actual world around us. The work I make is highly technical, but It is not about the technology. I am more interested in the application of the technology and how it can bring us closer together, shake us from the synthetic, and offer a genuine experience to every audience member’s consciousness, rather than just watching something “over there”. I am interested in how creating meaningful time-based experiences can lead to more meaningful human-to-human interaction. If theater at its core is humans telling stories about ourselves to each other, then I hope it is in the service of getting better at being human. This is why I make the work that I make. This is also how I try to make the work that I make – with value-aligned recurring collaborators who are interested not just in the work of making experience, but in a vigorous interrogation of what power structures exist in the rooms in which we make and how to systemically try to make change in inequitable systems.”

Right before the pandemic Andrew premiered the choreographic work »remains« commissioned by the Sasha Waltz & Guests company at Radialsystem in Berlin, Germany.

Over the past two years, he has focused on demonstrating in the streets, organizing for social justice, facilitating a group to look at systemic oppression and privilege with other white men, and creating the technical infrastructure for a time-based, narrative, immersive, light and sound installation dealing with grief, loss, and presentness.

Original performance work in NYC includes NERVOUS/SYSTEM (2018 – BAM Next Wave); AFTER (2018 – Under the Radar, The Public Theater); YOUARENOWHERE (2015 OBIE award, 2016 Drama Desk nom); DANCE/FIELD (2014 – Roulette); TIDAL (2013 – River to River); and WOW+FLUTTER (2010 – The Chocolate Factory Theater), among others.

Andrew has been a recurring collaborator with The TEAM, Lars Jan / Early Morning Opera, Annie Saunders, David Dorfman Dance, Hotel Savant, and Fischerspooner. His off-broadway designs include Dolphins and Sharks at the Labyrinth Theater; Small Mouth Sounds at Ars Nova and the Signature Theater; and Roosevelvis at the Vineyard Theater. Schneider has taught master classes on Technology and Performance at Bowdoin, Carleton, and Connecticut College. He was a 2019 Professor of the Practice and Visiting Fellow in Theater Arts and Performance Studies through the Brown Arts Initiative at Brown University. Andrew holds a BFA in Theater Arts from Illinois Wesleyan University and a Masters Degree in Interactive Telecommunications from NYU.

Andrew is a recipient of the Foundation for Contemporary Arts Grants to Artists award (2020), was a Sundance “Art of the Practice” fellow (2021), and has received a fellowship from the Junge Akademie / Akademie Der Künste in Berlin (2022). He teaches a recurring class on original-flavor reality at the Interactive Telecommunications Program at NYU where he is currently a postdoctoral fellow.
press Enter ↵
Question 1
1
NameThis question is required.*

press Enter ↵
